---
title: "Weaponizing hyperfocus: Becoming the first DevRel at Tailscale"
date: "2023-01-25"
tags:
 - "devrel"
 - "personal"
authors: [ "xe" ]
preview: "Xe's story about how they came to do DevRel and a short history of the team."
---

import { HeroImage } from "@/components/HeroImage";

Hello, world! I'm Xe, and I am the first Developer Advocate at
Tailscale. I'm a [prolific blogger](https://xeiaso.net/blog), VTuber,
and an avid technologist. I started working on Developer Relations
(DevRel) at Tailscale in Spring 2022. I wanted to trace over the
history of how I started the DevRel practice at Tailscale and how
working on it has let me use a part of me that I had come to hate as
an asset instead of an impediment that makes my job easier.

<HeroImage name="teyvat-utopia" desc="landscape, fuji-san, pagodas, space needle" width=1280 height=512 generator="Waifu Diffusion v1.3" />

In Spring 2022, I sat down and started to take DevRel seriously at
Tailscale. I had heard about the practice in the past, but I had never
done it before. I knew that a lot of it was talking about a product to
people and finding new and interesting ways to use it, but a lot of
that seemed too vague to really have any solid place to start from.
It's like walking into an empty room and having no idea where to start
decorating.

At some level though, it felt _right_ for me in a way that I have
difficulty describing. It's the same feeling of it being _right_ that
I get from working in software in the first place. It felt like the
type of rabbit-hole you could spend an entire career in. After talking
it over with some peers, I found out that what I was doing was already
a split between my normal job and DevRel.. I was talking about
Tailscale in places. I was figuring out new and interesting ways to
use Tailscale. I was advocating for developers to build things on top
of Tailscale. It was working too, so all I had to do was do more of
it.

I got permission from my manager to get a 50/50 split between what I
was doing (work on internal tooling that was not sparking joy) and
this new experimental DevRel thing. I took the leap and I don't think
I am ever going to look back.

In 2022 I published a lot of projects, tools, and ways to use
Tailscale that still come up every so often. I made an
[nginx-auth](https://tailscale.com/blog/tailscale-auth-nginx/) tool
for a blogpost and it comes up in sales calls every so often. I was
originally going to make the [GitOps for
ACLs](https://tailscale.com/blog/gitops-acls/) tool into something for
a blogpost, but it ended up becoming a fully fledged product feature
and something that is currently in use by developers all over the
world. I managed to expense a scalped Steam Deck off of eBay and wrote
up [how I figured out how to install Tailscale on
it](https://tailscale.com/blog/steam-deck/).

I made a measurable _impact_ with my work and it helped to spread the
word about Tailscale and it's still paying dividends to this day.

In late 2022 I hit a point where there was enough work to be done that
I wasn't able to keep up with it. I was writing, hacking, and
advocating nonstop and I really needed people to help me. This ended
up with the DevRel team getting formed and my teammates have been a
blessing, even before things have gotten up to full speed.

At some point in 2022 I ended up coming up with the joke job title of
"Archmage of Infrastructure" with the intent that I would give people
a different answer every time they asked for it. For some reason or
another, the Archmage title stuck and now I'm the first Archmage at
Tailscale. My life is great.

In the process of doing this, I also had a unique opportunity to
weaponize something that had previously been a horrible vice: my
tendency to hyperfocus on things. This tendency has been my savior and
my jailor for most of my professional career. The most horrible part
about it is that I don't have control over what it focuses on. It's
like [an itch](https://xeiaso.net/blog/the-itch-2020-10-11) that you
can't ignore because you feel absolutely compelled to scratch and not
scratching it physically hurts or can be impossible. It's great when
it focuses on something that is "good" to focus on (such as the
project I was assigned to), but it was horrific when it focused on
something that was "bad" to focus on (such as literally anything else
but the project I was assigned to). This has both saved my ass and
gotten me into trouble countless times. It's why I've had such a rocky
career.

Working in DevRel has offered me a chance to be able to weaponize this
hyperfocus to help meet the needs. I have a few projects going on at
once that I peck at as reality demands. This gives me the ability to
wield my hyperfocus to meet my needs rather than being happy when it
meets the needs of my employer.

This gives me the freedom to focus when I can and to not focus when I
can't. This is an unparalleled level of inclusivity I have never had
at any company I have ever worked at and this should be the standard.
The DevRel team has grown from a single person doing things on the
side into a team and I want to use this opportunity to help create the
kind of team that I want to work for. I want to help create a culture
where things like hyperfocus are seen as _assets_ instead of
sometimes-useful impediments. I want the DevRel team to be a viral
force of good, and I feel that one of the ways to start that process
is to create the kind of team culture that shows their morals rather
than just writing them on a sheet of paper and saying "hi these things
exist, please believe us uwu". Actions speak louder than words. I feel
that this should be DevRel at Tailscale and I am going to do my best
to help make that happen.
